add ios blog post (#408)
deltachat/deltachat-pages: _posts/2021-02-04-ios-is-catching-up.md

  long-tap a message, "select more"
  and forward or delete several messages together.

- You see a nice image in the gallery of a larger chat -
  but you cannot really remember the context?
  Long-tapping the image and selecting **show in chat**
  brings you directly to the correct message in the chat now
  (this feature is even released first on iOS - other platforms will follow)

- When using multi-select or show-in-chat,
  you will notice the **improved context menus** that show
  the available options directly together with the selection.
   
These menus are available since iOS 13
and they are a good example
why native UI development rules for every-day-apps as messengers -
they just _look, feel and work better_ than platform-independent compromises.

![Screenshots of iOS context menus](../assets/blog/2021-02-04-context-menu.png)

### Send images with text and edit images

- **Before sending an image**, you can now **add some text:**
  Use the camera or the gallery as usual - 
  the image will be shown above the input field where you can add some text
  and finally tap the send-button.

- In the same way, you can **add some description to documents or files**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Moreover you can have a closer look at a draft by tapping on it. A large preview opens which is especially useful for documents to double check the file you are about to send. 
The preview allows even basic editing, like **drawing on images** or **cutting videos**. To enable editing you find a **edit button** in the upper right corner.
```

Author: thanks or pointing the video-cutting out, this is major, indeed - i forgot about that, sorry!

- Also, before sending an image,
  you can even **draw on it and do some basic editing:**
  Tap the image selected to send
  and then the **edit icon** in the upper right corner.
  
![Screenshots of iOS image sending options](../assets/blog/2021-02-04-edit-image.png)

### What else?

- We did some effort to **improve accessibility** -

>   thanks for blind and other people helping us to target some issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  thanks to our community helping us to target some issues
```

  we added **global search**, **disappearing messages**, **swipe-to-reply**,
  improved **video recording** and **message view**
  and [much more](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-ios/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#delta-chat-ios-changelog).

**Currently, we are working on improving background notifications** -
depending how often you use Delta Chat
and depending on how many other apps you have installed,
iOS does not allow us to check for new messages as we would like to do.
This is a known issue,
however, we have some ideas how that could be targeted - stay tuned.

Finally, it is worth mentioning, that, despite all these new features
the **minimal requirements have not changed:**
iOS 11, iPhone 5s or iPad 5/Air/Mini are still sufficient.  
Although supporting old systems is quite some additional work,
we have resisted the temptation to increase requirements several times.
So, existing devices can be continued for everyone's benefit
(maybe beside Apple's :)

## Try out the new iOS releases!

**As always, you'll find the new iOS version in Apple's
[App Store](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/delta-chat/id1459523234).**

> You are interesting in testing new features?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Are you maybe interested in testing new features?
```

---

> title: iOS is catching up!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Delta Chat iOS is catching up!
```

Author: makes sense :)

author: bjoern, paula (screenshots)
image: ../assets/blog/2021-02-04-context-menu-small.jpg
---

_Delta Chat iOS_ is available
[since about a year now](2020-01-09-iOS-appstore-release) 🎉 —  

> while being nicely usable and working
> (all platforms share the same,
> stable [Rust-core](2019-05-08-xyiv#the-coming-delta-chat-rustocalypse)),
> compared to the more mature Android and Desktop versions,
> some UI-features were just missing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
while being nicely usable and working,
compared to the more mature Android and Desktop versions,
some UI-features were just missing from our iOS app.
Note that all platforms share the same,
stable [Rust-core](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-core-rust) so you can expect the same core functionality and stability that our longer evolving Android and Desktop apps enjoy.
```

  the image will be shown above the input field where you can add some text
  and finally tap the send-button.

- In the same way, you can **add some description to documents or files**

- Also, before sending an image,
  you can even **draw on it and do some basic editing:**
  Tap the image selected to send
  and then the **edit icon** in the upper right corner.
  
![Screenshots of iOS image sending options](../assets/blog/2021-02-04-edit-image.png)

### What else?

- We did some effort to **improve accessibility** -
  thanks for blind and other people helping us to target some issues.
  Please let us know, if you encounter more issues.
  
- Before 1.16, but never mentioned in an dedicated iOS blog post,
  we added **global search**, **disappearing messages**, **swipe-to-reply**,
  improved **video recording** and **message view**
  and [much more](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-ios/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#delta-chat-ios-changelog).

**Currently, we are working on improving background notifications** -
depending how often you use Delta Chat
and depending on how many other apps you have installed,
iOS does not allow us to check for new messages as we would like to do.

> This is a known issue,
> however, we have some ideas how that could be targeted - stay tuned.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This is a known issue and there are ongoing efforts to address the issue -- stay tuned :)
```

### What else?

- We did some effort to **improve accessibility** -
  thanks to our community helping us to target some issues.
  Please let us know, if you encounter more issues.
  
- Before 1.16, but never mentioned in an dedicated iOS blog post,
  we added **global search**, **disappearing messages**, **swipe-to-reply**,
  improved **video recording** and **message view**
  and [much more](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-ios/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#delta-chat-ios-changelog).

**Currently, we are working on improving background notifications** -
depending how often you use Delta Chat
and depending on how many other apps you have installed,
iOS does not allow us to check for new messages as we would like to do.
This is a known issue and there are ongoing efforts to address the issue -- stay tuned :)

Finally, it is worth mentioning, that, despite all these new features
the **minimal requirements have not changed:**
iOS 11, iPhone 5s or iPad 5/Air/Mini are still sufficient.  
Although supporting old systems is quite some additional work,
we have resisted the temptation to increase requirements several times.
So, existing devices can be continued for everyone's benefit

> (maybe beside Apple's :)

Reviewer 3: syntactically there is a closing parenthesis missing:
```suggestion
(maybe beside Apple's :))
```
and if that doesn't look as good maybe replace the emoticon with an emoji:
😄 or 😏
```suggestion
(maybe beside Apple's 😄)
```
```suggestion
(maybe beside Apple's 😏)
```

Author: hm, i personally like the original, syntactically incorrect variant most (i read it as an orthographic ligature :) (ahh, and there is https://xkcd.com/541/ :)

With the releases of the lasts months
and with the **brand new iOS 1.16 release**
we were closing several gaps
and added **lots of features to the iOS user-interface:**

### Context menus and multi select

- We've added **multi select for messages** - 
  long-tap a message, "select more"
  and forward or delete several messages together.

- You see a nice image in the gallery of a larger chat -
  but you cannot really remember the context?
  Long-tapping the image and selecting **show in chat**
  brings you directly to the correct message in the chat now
  (this feature is even released first on iOS - other platforms will follow)

- When using multi-select or show-in-chat,
  you will notice the **improved context menus** that show
  the available options directly together with the selection.
   
These menus are available since iOS 13
and they are a good example
why native UI development rules for every-day-apps as messengers -
they just _look, feel and work better_ than platform-independent compromises.

![Screenshots of iOS context menus](../assets/blog/2021-02-04-context-menu.png)

### Send images with text and edit images

> - **Before sending an image**, you can now **add some text:**

Reviewer: maybe add "gif or video" here

> - **Before sending an image**, you can now **add some text:**

Author: i'd add that to the paragraph below.

  Use the camera or the gallery as usual - 
  the image will be shown above the input field where you can add some text
  and finally tap the send-button.

- In the same way, you can **add some description to documents or files**

- Also, before sending an image,
  you can even **draw on it and do some basic editing:**
  Tap the image selected to send
  and then the **edit icon** in the upper right corner.

>   

Reviewer: maybe we can mention here as well that you can preview drafted documents? I'm not sure it it's that important. But that's part of the new feature, too

> - Also, before sending an image,
>   you can even **draw on it and do some basic editing:**
>   Tap the image selected to send
>   and then the **edit icon** in the upper right corner.
>   

Reviewer: ```suggestion  
```

![Screenshots of iOS image sending options](../assets/blog/2021-02-04-edit-image.png)

### What else?

- We did some effort to **improve accessibility** -

>   thanks for blind and other people helping us to target some issues.

Reviewer: I don't knwo if our helper is blind actually. Maybe just say thanks "to our comminity helping us to target some issues"

  Please let us know, if you encounter more issues.
  
- Before 1.16, but never mentioned in an dedicated iOS blog post,
  we added **global search**, **disappearing messages**, **swipe-to-reply**,
  improved **video recording** and **message view**
  and [much more](https://github.com/deltachat/deltachat-ios/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#delta-chat-ios-changelog).

**Currently, we are working on improving background notifications** -
depending how often you use Delta Chat
and depending on how many other apps you have installed,
iOS does not allow us to check for new messages as we would like to do.
This is a known issue and there are ongoing efforts to address the issue -- stay tuned :)

Finally, it is worth mentioning, that, despite all these new features
the **minimal requirements have not changed:**
iOS 11, iPhone 5s or iPad 5/Air/Mini are still sufficient.  
Although supporting old systems is quite some additional work,
we have resisted the temptation to increase requirements several times.
So, existing devices can be continued for everyone's benefit

> (maybe beside Apple's :)

Reviewer: 🤣
